[Music]
and a one-off okay
one two three five four three two
[Applause]
here we are close to the southwest point
of Europe actually mani Peninsula is one
of the three peninsulas in the south of
Peloponnese in the center and
historically is the most important
for approximately 400 years Greece was
under the Ottoman occupation every part
of Greece but money the whole peninsula
was free they didn't form a state of a
country but they had a governor who had
some negotiations with the Turks but in
any case it was free land and there was
no army here or police to enforce the
law so the law in a way was in the hands
of the local families and clans they had
to report the governor but actually in
the everyday life they had to report to
their families only so they developed
this structure of towers in order to
defend themselves from the neighbors it
is the saying that when man is didn't
fight the Turks fight themselves it was
also very important that state of
Liberty the head for 400 years gave
great help to the Greek revolution since
they had a very well-trained and
equipped army here
after the war that place was abandoned
massively they couldn't survive here
that place is not very friendly in
matter of cultivation they had to fight
with all this tough land to survive
hello healthy to me
the road here arrived in 1978
can you imagine 78 yesterday
you see the sassy
we first went to the moon and then the
world arrived in Bahia and that was the
thing
there was a difficult communication
between the villages from mainland so
they developed communication with the
rest of the world by the sea
maybe the kids would love to have the
traditional Greek drink from cherries
cherry soda or say
cherry cherry cherry juice juice yes and
for you some treats from my mother with
just this little settlement was a
typical manual colic Simoni from the
prefix a which means a distance from
something as we say so no foria and
money which means alone as we say
monotony monography so exa mone is a
small family settlement which is made
mainly by a certain family who leaves
the main settlement the main village
because they lost a war with a neighbor
or they cannot stand the neighbor or
they have children to defend the family
so they make their own village literally
with that war towers with a watch tower
with a cemetery with an olive press with
this church so this is a family village
that's why you will seen money small
settlements extra small in size because
they belong to different families that's
why they had so close between for
example people who lived here in caste
resettlement and those guys over there
in that little castle across in order to
protect their families that's why they
have all the
stone protection in their windows in
order to be able to shoot the enemy from
the window and sometimes you can see
across in that tower there is a whole
body kind of protection for someone who
should standing that's why they had all
these protections for the same for the
building itself the doors are low we
have to bend somebody who wants to
intrude in the building he has to bend
to go through that small door and be
vulnerable to the hot oil or hot water
someone can throw him from the window
and actually this is our this is the
kitchen
five by five meters walls are included
this is the trap door which goes to the
second room all the rooms were
interconnected you can see how they head
on those days wooden ladders in case of
emergency and close that trap door when
they are on the upper floor they had
moveable with the latter so they can
take the ladder up and leave the
intruder down you see how we formed
these steps here so actually you
immediately turn from the last step of
the hood and letter to the stone steps
of the vault and go up this is what we
call water flow in Greek we call this
kind of communication between levels in
money water flow
they say coming from you see they shaped
these steps that's original yes we just
put the railings that building was up to
this level here it was up to here up to
here that stone was existing inverted so
we just completed a building according
to the coordination and the sizes of the
tower and we managed to have this
mezzanine with a boat latter your
children would feel very nicely here to
go up and down through that boat later
to the next level so this is a place
exactly so for example we we didn't know
the height of this door and we went to
Bahia village we saw the height of this
balcony doors in Bahia and we did simply
the same so here was half door in the
original building and we completed the
door and we found the size of this
balcony and two wooden stools for the
guests to sit enjoy the view and come to
the stars maybe this is yes that was the
size of a typical balcony in the area
don't forget that all this these
buildings have been used for hundreds of
years so maybe some additions belong to
later generations exactly
how did you come here and find I came as
a groom I met my wife in the School of
Architecture and that I wanted to
propose her back in 1994 and I say okay
let's go to your motherland she knows
the area very well and we were passing
by that Sunday of March of 1994 outside
of here and we stopped with our friends
were group of friends and we saw a ruin
and we assumed actually half of the
upper floor was missing and nothing was
around here is and we assumed that the
view from here would be nice and there
was a sign for sale in one of the corner
stores of the building it was a great
great surprise for us so we first bought
the building and then we decided what to
do with that
we tried to make our presence and as
less important as possible it took us
eight years to complete this project we
always in the course of these eight
years always were questioning ourselves
if we did the right thing
an important part was the mortar outside
the color of the mortar which gives you
that feeling that this tower is standing
there forever it is not something new
we didn't took the patina of time out of
the building this is a little small
hotel guest house with three rooms we
try to make little spaces for our guests
so he doesn't feel limited at the end of
the day we don't want our guests to
admire the place and then leave do we
brought this olive-trees the big holiday
trees to create shade for our guests
these are all yes 100 years or more
this is a typical manage room with a
vault they had that technique since they
couldn't use cement they used wooden
frames to support originally the stones
to make the vault
and then to block the stones with the
last line of stones and to make the
vault as the arch in the Catholic
churches where the stones in the middle
block the whole world they had plenty of
stones and wood no cement so that's why
all their technique was this system of
parallel vaults one over the other and
each arch had the sidewalls going all
the way down that's why the walls on the
ground level are more than 1.5 meters
thick something like six foot thick
walls because they hold three four
vaults in the different levels we had to
change the mortar three times to
absolutely integrate the building to its
natural environment for example here
what kind of lighting you put on a wall
which is curved you realize that you
don't need a lighting but a bare bulb
because then you leave the stone
untouched so the bathroom looks like
it's one University yes the outside
walls in your structure but inside we
have left it as it was this is a kind of
inside staircase to be able to go to the
terrace above through here but you can't
actually because now you can actually go
because later on we closed it so it's a
simple shower with an old marble yes
it's an old sink which was inside a wall
that was the side inside the wall and we
put it the other way
so someone who comes in the door cannot
be heard from the tangles of the corners
of the sink but we can see how the
marble was inside the wall and this much
is very much goes very well with the
stone
how hard was it to get plumbing in here
we were liking this point because all
the villages in the area survived with
cisterns there is there is quality you
see how they make this door to the next
room
this stone holds all the vault so it's a
very important stone and there is
another one which keeps don't forget
that there is an earthquake zone at the
south of 10 Iran it is the second
deepest point in Mediterranean so these
buildings have suffered hundreds of
earthquakes for hundreds of years they
suffered from mother from water water
washes the connected element between the
stones if one vault opens then the water
comes and washes next on an external
bended but not the earthquake here who
had to form a bathroom we didn't want to
make a separate room of the wall as in
previous cases we chose the extra modern
approach of having a glass cabin with a
rain shower next to an authentic World
and Korean structure for the bathtub and
sink we just formed here a single bed
it's the only stone bed in the building
it was a space and there was an arch a
vault which was had fall so we kept this
part we found as a memory of that vault
and we completed the lost vault with
a modern structure and also we completed
a kind of bench which was here for
family use to use it as a bed with by
adding mattresses and pillows this is
another vault arch which is very low not
very but it's low it's lower than the
other rooms so you have this cozy
feeling a different atmosphere here and
always with these touches of modern
Lighting's
or modern furniture just furniture not
audience yes furniture so it could keep
the the original walls in original space
and attached that latter goes the
trapdoor on our kitchen and reception
level so all the rooms are
interconnected and now we go up a family
can communicate from the inside from
room to the other
another movable de lattre and again
these steps beautifully shaped on the
vault right that's why you can see
regularities of the original builder
right mind your hand here so and we put
latches from both sides so everybody is
safe
feels privacy right so this is our
kitchen and my reception it's just small
footprint isn't it yes kitchens again
it's not built in yes it has freezer or
drawers
yes it is it is an object it's a
furniture this over here it's called
Baltimore it is one furniture here in
more furniture here that's it the
generator last week
we gathered our ground fields and we
made about 200 kilos of olive oil here
they made the votes but they had poor
elements like stone from the place the
stone work off the vault is not special
that's why we preferred in this case to
cover the stone wall with this stucco to
give this also and another impression
Stukas is first traditional Greek
technique they used to make it on-site
in holes in the ground by pushing us
with this yes and ceramic materials to
take ceramic to make a powder of ceramic
to mix it with limestone and to make
that mortar for their stucco surfaces or
the mortar for the stones right so here
this is a very important stone because
if we take the stone out then the vault
will start gradually to deteriorate
that's what happens in in the remoted
ruins one stone of the vault falls down
and then the rest start deteriorating
continues
and we founded it so we didn't dare to
touch the the architecture of the
building it has survived for centuries
with earthquakes and all these issues
now I know Bravo's we're so nervous
today it was yeah physically this was
done
we'd like to have techniques and
materials are authentic for the area we
believe that every guest as we say in
our language he can read with this eyes
the patina of time on a building you can
see the authenticity of the renovation
although maybe he's not an expert of
that he can understand it this is the
window towards the original path which
means that name defends to the window so
you can target and shoot the enemy with
protection of the stones they would
control the path and watch every moment
who is coming who is going is he an
enemy is here friend because this
actually defense is very strategic yes
you can see the whole area by having
this contact eye contact with your
luminous nowadays gives us the
opportunity to have internet here so we
from here a little bathroom the only
world with bathtub
so that a mezzanine so this gives you
space for an extra bed for next bed and
that's our family room for member family
and the last staircase which goes to the
roof we can see the village of capella
shows the village of alika and the port
of hero Luminas which was a very
important port for the last 100 years
for the area because a ship was coming
almost daily from Athens to bring
supplies and to take the products these
people had for sale to Athens that's how
they survived always the communication
through the sea that's a flag a cross
and the four beasts from the world
basil in greek means king so it's the
four beasts would have the form of a
fire fire look like fire and the four
beasts king of the king who kings those
who want to be kinked very petition of
the world basil which is king so now you
can clearly see that that that's sort of
the last part of the what was it done of
village where you called Simoni and that
was according to the theory they higher
the better
here was the captain of the village the
most powerful person who had this
fortified building to defend his old
family and the whole settlement he made
rules okay he made the rules
this is our next project we acquire this
property and we make plans having the
experience of this place and having
knowledge of modern materials nowadays
in the market we shall keep this
building and we shall add the missing
parts in a way that you can identify
what was missing and what is old and
from outside the building will remain
unattached we can secure the building
without touching his outer surface we
shall keep the main building as the
public space of the hotel and then
behind the building on these terraces we
shall nestle the rooms because we have
noticed that one of the main criteria
for our guest is privacy this is our
next project because okay a little guest
house with three rooms it's it's a hobby
rather than a profession so I know that
to be able to expand we will try for
something even better by the way that
was the path going to the rest of the
area until 1978 that was the path people
used to go to the rest of Tanner an area
through that path
for hundreds of years that was their way
to communicate with the rest of money I
think they they walk a lot
what does that take to make a rule to
take a ruin and that must be a huge
project yes yes sometimes the locals in
the course of this 8 years sometimes the
locals made some jokes about us like
what are you doing so many here so why
do you change the mortar three times why
are you paying so many attention to
thing be careful it drops off the edge
there okay okay well I think it's our
interest our desire to offer to our
guests authentic staying money how these
people used to leave you should try this
Nico explain what it is yes the first
the first season you know I had to
prepare so many things as you said the
signs everything so I forgot the welcome
treat I want you to my mother I said
give me something tomorrow we're going
to open have nothing to give to our
guests
and I took a liquor from the heavy made
things old women do from herbs from
their poles and I took this and I I
noticed I guessed like it every year she
makes for us honey cinnamon and we're
from all over the world and we can enjoy
sitting on a stone fence touching the
stone everybody from everywhere can
appreciate this feeling this feeling
here
[Music]